[ADD] Expenses: new log expenses doc (#10322)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/expenses/log_expenses.rst

============
Log expenses
============

Before expenses can be reimbursed, each individual expense needs to be logged in the database.
Expense records can be created in three different ways: :ref:`manually enter an expense record
<expenses/manual_expense>`, :ref:`upload a receipt <expenses/upload_receipt>`, or :ref:`email a

> receipt <expenses/email_expense>` to a preconfigured email address.

Author: According to the Linter, we are supposed to use "preconfigured".

  :guilabel:`Quantity`.

  .. note::
     When a tax is configured on an expense category, the :guilabel:`Included Taxes` value updates
     in real time as the :guilabel:`Total` or :guilabel:`Quantity` is updated.

- :guilabel:`Employee`: using the drop-down menu, select the employee this expense is for.
- :guilabel:`Paid By`: click the radio button to indicate who paid for the expense, and should be
  reimbursed. If the employee paid for the expense and should be reimbursed, select
  :guilabel:`Employee (to reimburse)`. If the company paid directly instead (e.g. if the company
  credit card was used to pay for the expense) select :guilabel:`Company`. Depending on the expense
  category selected, this field may not appear.
- :guilabel:`Expense Date`: using the calendar module, enter the date the expense was incurred. Use
  the :icon:`fa-chevron-left` :guilabel:`(left)` and :icon:`fa-chevron-right` :guilabel:`(right)`
  arrows to navigate to the correct month, then click on the specific day to enter the selection.
- :guilabel:`Account`: select the expense account that the expense should be logged in from the
  drop-down menu.

> - :guilabel:`Customer to Reinvoice`: if the expense is something that should be paid for by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Customer to Reinvoice`: If the expense is something that should be paid for by a
```

  customer, select the :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` and customer that should be invoiced for this
  expense from the drop-down menu. All sales orders in the drop-down menu list both the :abbr:`SO

>   (Sales Order)` as well as the company the sales order is written for. After the expense is saved,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (Sales Order)`, as well as the company the sales order is written for. After the expense is saved,
```

>   the customer name disappears and only the :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` is visible on the expense.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the customer name disappears, and only the :abbr:`SO (Sales Order)` is visible on the expense.
```

  .. example::
     A customer wishes to have an on-site meeting for the design and installation of a custom

>      garden, and agrees to pay for the expenses associated with it, such as travel, hotel, meals,
>      etc. All expenses tied to that meeting would indicate the sales order for the custom garden
>      (which also references the customer) as the :guilabel:`Customer to Reinvoice`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     garden, and agrees to pay for the expenses associated with it (such as travel, hotel, meals,
     etc.). All expenses tied to that meeting would indicate the sales order for the custom garden
     (which also references the customer) as the :guilabel:`Customer to Reinvoice`.
```

> - :guilabel:`Analytic Distribution`: select the account the expense should be written against from

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Analytic Distribution`: Select the account the expense should be written against from
```

  the drop-down menu for either :guilabel:`Projects`, :guilabel:`Departments`, or both. Multiple
  accounts can be listed for each category, if needed. Adjust the percentage for each analytic
  account by typing in the percentage value next to each account.

> - :guilabel:`Company`: if multiple companies are set up, select the company the expense should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Company`: If multiple companies are set up, select the company the expense should be
```

  filed for from the drop-down menu. The current company automatically populates this field.

> - :guilabel:`Notes...`: if any notes are needed to clarify the expense, enter them in the notes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Notes...`: If any notes are needed to clarify the expense, enter them in the notes
```

Author: Oh no- I missed this update to the new standards! I thought I caught them, but I had started some before and some after the new rules, so some got the updates and some I missed. Thanks for catching this!

  field.

.. image:: log_expenses/expense-filled-in.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A filled in expense form for a client lunch.

Attach receipts
---------------

After the expense record is created, the next step is to attach a receipt. Click the
:guilabel:`Attach Receipt` button, and a file explorer appears. Navigate to the receipt to be
attached, and click :guilabel:`Open`.

> The new receipt is recorded in the chatter, and the number of receipts appears next to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new receipt is recorded in the *chatter*, and the number of receipts appears next to the
```

> :icon:`fa-paperclip` :guilabel:`(paperclip)` icon beneath the expense form. More than one receipt

Reviewer: depending on the browser size, like we've discussed in the past, the chatter might be to the side *or* the bottom. So, make sure to keep things as universal/generic as possible when describing elements such as this. Thanks

Author: I keep forgetting that- I will make sure to be more clear (by being more vague ^_^)

> :icon:`fa-paperclip` :guilabel:`(paperclip)` icon beneath the expense form. More than one receipt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:icon:`fa-paperclip` :guilabel:`(paperclip)` icon beneath the expense form. Multiple receipts
```

> can be attached to an individual expense record, as needed. The number of receipts attached to the
> expense is noted on the :icon:`fa-paperclip` :guilabel:`(paperclip)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can be attached to an individual expense record, as needed.
```
I believe you just mentioned this same thing a sentence prior

.. image:: log_expenses/receipt-icon.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Attach a receipt and it appears in the chatter.

.. _expenses/upload_receipt:

Upload expenses
===============

> Rather than manually inputting all of the information for an expense record, it is possible to have
> expense records created automatically, by uploading a PDF receipt. This feature requires enabling a
> setting, and purchasing :abbr:`IAP's (in-app purchases)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to have expense records created automatically, by uploading a PDF receipt. This feature requires the enabling of a setting, and the purchasing of :abbr:`IAP (in-app purchases)` credits.
```

Digitalization settings
-----------------------

To enable receipt scanning, navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app --> Configuration -->

> Settings`, and enable the :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)` option. When enabled, additional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Settings`, and tick the checkbox beside the :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)` option. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`. When enabled, additional
```

options appear. Click on the corresponding radio button to select one of the following options:

> - :guilabel:`Do not digitize`: this option turns off receipt digitization.
> - :guilabel:`Digitize on demand only`: this option only digitizes receipts when requested. A
>   :guilabel:`Digitize document` button appears on expense records. When clicked, the receipt is
>   scanned and the expense record is updated.
> - :guilabel:`Digitize automatically`: this option automatically digitizes all receipts when they are
>   uploaded.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Do not digitize`: turns off receipt digitization.
- :guilabel:`Digitize on demand only`: only digitizes receipts when requested. A
  :guilabel:`Digitize document` button appears on expense records. When clicked, the receipt is
  scanned, and the expense record is updated.
- :guilabel:`Digitize automatically`: automatically digitizes all receipts when they are
  uploaded.

```

Beneath these options are two additional links. Click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Buy
credits` button to purchase credits for receipt digitization. Click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right`

> :guilabel:`View My Services` to view a list of all current services, and their remaining credit

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`View My Services` button to view a list of all current services, and their remaining credit
```

> credits` button to purchase credits for receipt digitization. Click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right`
> :guilabel:`View My Services` button to view a list of all current services, and their remaining
> credit balances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
credits` link to purchase credits for receipt digitization. Click the :icon:`fa-arrow-right`
:guilabel:`View My Services` link to view a list of all current services, and their remaining
credit balances.
```

> For more information on document digitization and :abbr:`IAP's (in-app purchases)`, refer to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on document digitization and :abbr:`IAPs (in-app purchases)`, refer to the
```

:doc:`In-app purchase (IAP) <../../essentials/in_app_purchase>` documentation.

.. note::

>    The :guilabel:`Do not digitize` option for :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)` may seem like a
>    redundancy. It seems to be the same as disabling the :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)`
>    option.
> 
>    When the :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)` option is enabled, a module is installed so that
>    receipts can be scanned. Disabling this option would uninstall the module.
> 
>    If at some point, there is a desire to temporarily stop digitizing receipts, select the
>    :guilabel:`Do not digitize` option. The reason this option is available is so the module is not
>    uninstalled, allowing for digitization to be enabled in the future by selecting one of the other
>    two options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When the :guilabel:`Expense Digitization (OCR)` option is enabled, a module is installed, so
   receipts can be scanned. Disabling this option would uninstall the module.

   If, at some point, there is a desire to temporarily stop digitizing receipts, select the
   :guilabel:`Do not digitize` option. The reason this option is available is so the module is not
   uninstalled, allowing for digitization to be enabled in the future by selecting one of the other
   two options.
```

Author: Much more succinct- thank you!

Upload receipts
---------------

> First, accessed the main :guilabel:`Expenses` app dashboard view by navigating to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, access the main :guilabel:`Expenses` app dashboard view by navigating to
```

> First, access the main :guilabel:`Expenses` app dashboard view by navigating to
> :menuselection:`Expenses app --> My Expenses --> My Expenses`. Click :guilabel:`Upload`, and a file
> explorer appears. Navigate to the desired receipt, click on it to select it, then click
> :guilabel:`Open`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the :guilabel:`Expenses app`, and from the :guilabel:`My Expenses` dashboard, click :guilabel:`Upload`, and a file
explorer appears. Navigate to the desired receipt, select it, then click :guilabel:`Open`.
```

.. image:: log_expenses/upload.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Create an expense by scanning a receipt. Click Scan at the top of the Expenses dashboard
         view.

The receipt is scanned, and a new expense record is created. The :guilabel:`Expense Date` field is
populated with today's date, along with any other fields based on the scanned data, such as the
:guilabel:`Total`.

> Click on the new entry to open the individual expense form, and make any changes needed. The scanned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click on the new entry to open the individual expense form, and make any changes, if needed. The scanned
```

> receipt appears in the chatter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
receipt appears in the *chatter*.
```

.. _expenses/email_expense:

Email expenses
==============

> Instead of individually creating each expense in the *Expenses* app, expenses can be automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of individually creating each expense in the **Expenses** app, expenses can be automatically
```

created by sending an email to an email alias.

> To do so, first, an email alias needs to be configured. Navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To do so, an email alias must first be configured. Navigate to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->
```

> Configuration --> Settings`. Ensure :guilabel:`Incoming Emails` is enabled. The default email alias

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuration --> Settings`. Ensure the checkbox beside :guilabel:`Incoming Emails` is ticked. The default email alias
```

> is :guilabel:`expense@(domain).com`. Change the email alias by entering the desired email in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is *expense@(domain).com*. Change the email alias by entering the desired email in the
```

Author: I used a GUI because it does automatically populate and you see it on the UI- but I do like thee italics better.

> field to the right of :guilabel:`Alias`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field to the right of :guilabel:`Alias`. Then, click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. image:: log_expenses/alias-email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Te default email that populates the expenses email alias.

.. note::
   If the domain alias needs to be set up, :icon:`fa-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Setup your domain
   alias` appears beneath the :guilabel:`Incoming Emails` checkbox, instead of the email address
   field.

   .. image:: log_expenses/email-alias.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Create the domain alias by clicking the link.

   Refer to the :doc:`/applications/websites/website/configuration/domain_names` documentation for
   setup instructions and more information.

>    Once the domain alias is configured, the email address field is visible beneath the incoming
>    emails section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Once the domain alias is configured, the email address field is visible beneath the :guilabel:`Incoming
   Emails` feature on the :guilabel:`Settings` page in the **Expenses** app.
```

> Next, enter the email address to be used in the email field, and then click :guilabel:`Save`. Once

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once
```
that sentence/instruction was already mentioned above

> the email address has been entered, emails can be sent to that alias to create new expenses without

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the email address has been entered, emails can be sent to that alias to create new expenses, without
```

having to be in the Odoo database.

> To submit an expense via email, create a new email and enter the product's *internal reference* code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To submit an expense, via email, create a new email, and enter the product's *internal reference* code
```

> (if available) and the amount of the expense in the email subject. Next, attach the receipt to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(if available) and the amount of the expense as the subject of the email. Next, attach the receipt to the
```

> email. Odoo creates the expense by taking the information in the email subject and combining it with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
email. Odoo creates the expense by taking the information in the email subject, and combining it with
```

the receipt.

> To check an expense categories internal reference, go to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check an expense category's internal reference, go to :menuselection:`Expenses app -->
```

Configuration --> Expense Categories`. If an internal reference is listed on the expense category,
it is listed in the :guilabel:`Internal Reference` column.

.. image:: log_expenses/ref.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Internal reference numbers are listed in the main Expense Categories view.

To add an internal reference on an expense category, click on the category to open the expense
category form. Enter the :guilabel:`Internal Reference` in the corresponding field. Beneath the
:guilabel:`Internal Reference` field, this sentence appears: :guilabel:`Use this reference as a
subject prefix when submitting by email.`

.. image:: log_expenses/mileage-internal-reference.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Internal reference numbers are listed in the main Expense Products view.

.. example::

>    If submitting an expense via email for a $25.00 meal during a work trip, the email subject would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If submitting an expense, via email, for a $25.00 meal during a work trip, the email subject would
```

   be `FOOD $25.00`.

   Explanation:

   - The :guilabel:`Internal Reference` for the expense category `Meals` is `FOOD`
   - The :guilabel:`Cost` for the expense is `$25.00`

.. note::
   For security purposes, only authenticated employee emails are accepted by Odoo when creating an
   expense from an email. To confirm an authenticated employee email address, go to the employee

>    card in the :menuselection:`Employees` app, and refer to the :guilabel:`Work Email`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   card in the :menuselection:`Employees app`, and refer to the :guilabel:`Work Email` field.
```
